When I discovered that there was a field called Systems Science, I was overjoyed.  I have been preoccupied with the problems of coming to terms with biological complexity my whole life, and have spent much time studying and building models outside of any institution long before I discovered there was a field, a community of people doing similar work.  What I had assumed was a solitary and dimly defined journey turned out to be a legitimate and collaborative effort.  Taking the Systems Science Masters course has been a fundamental step in that journey that started a long time ago.  And it is nowhere near the final step, but it has been an important one.  In many ways, it is just the beginning.  

Thus it is with a deep sense of accomplishment that I am able to now propose my comprehensive examinations for the Systems Science Masters degree.  There are two exams which cover 16 credits of coursework each.  The Systems Science coursework covers a wide array of skills and approaches, from the purely philosophical to the highly technical, with some application thrown in for good measure.  I have divided the exams roughly in terms of the dichotomy between application and theory.  The first covers much of the application side of things, with the second being more of the theoretical underpinnings.  In accordance with Systems Philosophy, the wider breadth of topics covered the deeper are the connections between them.  The details of all of these exams are enumerated in the coming sections.

With the degree in hand, I plan on putting to use all of the methods and approaches that have been offered in these last few years towards real world scenarios.  Building models of biological processes is still a passion that consumes me, and I feel that this has passed from the realm of dreams to something that is immediately applicable in my day to day life.  I do not need to wait for anyone's approval, I can forge ahead now with my own initiative and build the things that need to be built.  Whether that is in the medical community, design, the arts, computational sciences (or all of the above!), with programming and code as my medium I will put a synthesis of these and other techniques to create truly novel and biologically inspired computational systems.  Already many opportunities have appeared, in my current industry and electronics and music, and I plan on making the most of these opportunities.  In the immediate future I am working with an electronics company to build analog electronic circuits that display biological adaptation!  It is a reassuring sign that when effort is put forth in an area opportunities open up in tandem with that effort.  

It is now this last hurdle, that of my comprehensive examinations, I turn towards before embarking on the rest of my life journey.  My gratitude to this program is boundless, thank you.  