Hello friends!

I had a moment the other day where after being flabbergasted and ashamed yet again, I wondered where the opposition was. Not to say there hasn't been opposition, but I know there are literally millions of people who sympathize on this. I see their exasperated despair and amazement everywhere.

There is an inexplicable knot of urgency that has bloomed in my gut lately. I think this may very well be a turning point in history. All the old enemies of humanity have reared their head and taken off their masks and are going for their final desperate push. This is always what happens in the climax of the story. I think at this point it could go either way, with a real and palpable danger that it could go the wrong way for good. I think this is serious in a way me and many others I know have not witnessed in our lifetimes.

Where is everyone? Why do we feel like we can't do anything? Aren't there an overwhelming number of us? Why is there not a 24/7 encampment outside our government buildings with literally everyone who cares? The answer is: for a lot of reasons. But also one big one.

I know so many amazing people with such a wide array of talents, and I have seen what they can do. Video, music, medicine, construction, carpentry, plumbing, programming, math... producers, directors, performers, farmers, nutritionists, doctors, lawyers, dancers, puppeteers and on and on. The only tragedy is that we are not all coordinating our activities. We are all paid by different people and divert most of our powers into making enough money to live as well as we can, so we are not collaborating on great works. I know the reasons for this and most of the time it is sufficient.

What we are missing right now is organization. We would all do *something* about it but we find ourselves already along a trajectory that is hard to deviate from. Just holding down a job is enough of a limitation for most that our ability to contribute by say, spending an unspecified period of time occupying a national landmark is out of the question. If you add to that kids and a mortgage you may be someone whose ability to commit to new things is already maxxed out. And political change requires nothing if not commitment.

So here we go along, all going through our daily motions hoping someone will do something about this. In the meantime we approach disaster at an alarming rate.

By looking through history, I see these things have usually been resolved by an unprecedented social demonstration. Think now of millions of American citizens gathered in one place in opposition to the current leadership. There is no way such a thing could be ignored. I think also that given the current sentiment that such an effort could snowball into a truly tremendous demonstration, the likes of which the world has never seen. A collective decision that This Is Not Okay. A clear and lasting and undeniable message.

The thing is, we have the internet now. I still don't believe the internet has truly been used for its real potential, to provide a medium for organization on a global scale. 

I want to live in a world where we look back at this situation and are thankful that we had the opportunity to coordinate on a global level against a common threat. That this is the event where we discovered that we can act in mass, and *how* to act in mass, to bring about the change that we all desire. Where we found in ourselves and each other the ability to have a real impact on the world through collective action. Where we see firsthand the true power of collective action.

I think it is possible, and I also think it might be the most important thing we ever do.

So, here is my proposal. I really don't know anything about this stuff so this is more of a "heart in the right place" kind of proposal, but that is part of what we have going for us. Some of you out there know more about this part than I do, and we can help each other because ultimately we (mostly?) want the same thing.

PROPOSAL:

* PLAN - Draw up a concrete plan of occupation of a national landmark/monument/what have you that will have the greatest impact and also the most logistically feasible (how about the one where they had the million human march?). This would require infrastructure: food, shelter, garbage and waste at the bare minimum. This stage would benefit from those of you who are lawyers and project managers, among many others.
* MESSAGE - Develop a clear message and strategy for engaging the public (with help from all of you in art, design, performance and marketing)
* FUNDING - Launch a crowdfunding campaign to bring awareness and funds and galvanize the masses (we have done this before)
* OCCUPY - Execute the plan and occupy the place (anyone who can make it)
* WIN - Hang on (all future generations also involved here)

I am pretty sure that once people start to see what we are doing that support will grow. This is the kind of thing that once it is happening everyone has a place to focus their efforts and energies, and people who want to help have somewhere to direct their support.

Thoughts on this? Am I a hopeless idealist? A delusional ranter? A clueless dreamer? Yet Another Facebook SJW? Is there actually no hope for the world and we might as well let it collapse in on itself like the embers of a blazing fire so I don't need to worry about it and maybe I should just stand down and go sedate myself with mindless entertainment and drugs and pornography?

I am willing to acknowledge these things, but in a way I don't care. I think this is urgent, and I think we have to try.

I can't do it alone, but luckily I am not alone. We can all do it if we work together, I truly believe this. Us and all of our friends and all of their friends and on and on until we make this a real social network across the planet, a living fabric, and make it for something real instead of a bunch of kittens or something. Though I love kittens too. Let's include the kittens in this somehow. 

Anyone interested in such a thing?