I don't know if you are aware of what is going on right now, but in a certain way this is a very special moment in history.
Right now, this very moment (well, it is probably over by the time you read this, but the moment lives on) a man named Ke Jie is standing as the last defender of humanity on a front that has been surging at us from before the universe was born.
A front that is already consuming us.
It is not a front of the machines, like a termination robot traveling back in time to eradicate us like pests, though machines are involved.
It is not the machine's fault.
And it is not ours.
This is not us vs them, because the "them" in this case is not an entity, or even something you can reasonably oppose.
This is the inexorable rise of certainty.
Certainty, which will be the end of us all.

In a very real way, we spend most of our lives trying to eliminate uncertainty.
It appears in many guises, but all of them we are intimate with.
In a way, it is the main function of mind.
To apprehend the riot and chaos of raw sensory stimuli and transmute it into salience.
Depth.
Stereo.
There are such a dizzying spectrum of simultaneous layers of uncertainty eradication going on right now in your cells and body alone, that you don't even notice them happening.
If you were able to be aware of all of the octaves of activity happening in your whole being right at this moment your head would literally explode in a shower of red haze.
Luckily you don't need to be aware of it.
The systems run on their own, feedback into themselves is a cyclical knot of convincingness.

At its most fundamental, uncertainty is a threat.
In a certain way, it is the only threat.
Where did that giant fish that was chasing me suddenly go?
Critical uncertainty.
Where will I find water as I travel through this giant open plain?
Which way will that rock shift if I place my weight on it?
Which way is my head pointing relative to my body?
What will happen if I let go of this rope?
I can enumerate countless questions like this that our organism answers every day, faithfully and with true commitment to the task.
At the whole basis, eliminating uncertainty is tantamount to survival.

Uncertainty doesn't kill you directly, but what does kill you you don't see coming (until it's too late).

Most of what we consider progress is the process of eliminating uncertainty.
While an uncertainty exists, it is the main focus of the human mind.
For an example, take *electricity*.
For most of human history people did not understand electricity.
Most of the experiences humans had with electricity were attributed to magic or the divine.
Only recently has the relentless flow of certainty given us a measure of understanding about electricity, enough to sculpt and mold and channel it to our will (enough to transmit these words from my thoughts into your mind), even though at this point we still don't truly understand what electricity *is*.
(But we will).
The first steps (that we know of) were a fixation on tiny effects of attraction and repulsion carried out by long dead greeks.
Since that time the uncertainty about what electricity is and how it works has been attacked with almost hideous enthusiasm.
Like a flock of eels devouring the world itself, we eat away at the edge of uncertainty until all that is left is what is known and understood.

Here is the great contradiction at the core of our existence: We are driven by uncertainty, yet the result is the destruction of the very thing that drove us in the first place.
In the end, there is only certainty.

This happens in my work.
The problems I work on, I work on because they are problems.
Once solved, I am not working on them any more.
I don't need to!
So all I really see are the problems.
From one problem to the next.
This doesn't mean that everything is fucked, though it definitely seems that way at times.
It just means that I don't deal with things that are already solved.

Really, if all the problems were solved, I wouldn't need to work here anymore!

Science itself is simply a large scale industrialization of the process of uncertainty elimination, a great wheel we constructed that now can turn on its own.

So why are we constantly destroying the very thing that gives life meaning?
Because if our purpose wasn't to eradicate it, then we wouldn't be honestly engaging with it, and the satisfaction would be absent.
It is the process that gives it meaning, not the thing in and of itself.

It is much like the universe as a whole (as far as we can tell).
The greatest force we know is Entropy, the one constant, the one true law.
The whole universe, as vast and varied as it is, is playing out in parallel the great imperative of the substrate, the inexorable path to certainty.
The Final State is Fully Known.

Tonight, Ke Jie lost. It is his third loss in a row, out of three games.
Alphago is not a Go player specifically, but rather a process of eliminating uncertainty.
It examines the position and calculates the probability of victory, for any position.
Then it follows a path to maximize its certainty.
Obviously there are many more details, but this is the core.
It has to be the core, there is nothing else to do in this universe.

Long ago, this flavor of uncertainty, Go, was the sole purview of human minds.
The delightful labyrinths of unknowns was open for all to explore, and the zeal and joy of uncovering the mysteries lying within echoes through the ages to this day, as countless go players around the world explore the same (and new!) passages for themselves.
But now we have a process, better than any human mind, that annihilates uncertainties without delight.
I think there is some mourning tonight for the potential those now fallen curtains once covered.
While also, some joy in having a new vehicle to travel this terrain.

We are entering an accelerated period of uncertainty annihilation.
The rise of computers is not about the machines themselves, it is about the certainty that is represented by a single bit.
This bit stands for all time, an unassailable monolith of information, impervious to the storm of chaos around it.
Our certainty is only as strong as our ability to retain this bit, this one pillar in the sea of energetic fluctuation.
And like a tree replicating its one pattern endlessly upon itself, the bit multiplies into all that is known.

At this point, most of our bits are pointless (youtube), but we keep them anyway.
We will probably keep them forever, cradling these first precious bits in vastly more robust arms of certainty.

And in that Final State, what will we do?
I think we will have no choice but to curl in upon ourselves and witness the final moments of that ultimate certainty unfurling its kaleidoscopic wings.
From that point on, all will be known, and therefore no more decisions can be made.
This is the world we are driving towards, because there is no other path to take.

So, while I can't blame anyone for engaging in your own pursuit of uncertainty consumption, at least take a moment to appreciate the process, and savor the taste of that most beautiful substances in the world: that which is not yet known.