Literature Review
Ryan Spangler

For my literature review I read "Sync", by Steven Strogatz.  I have chosen to study synchronization for my modeling project and it was recommended by a classmate.  At times chatty, it turned out to be quite informative about a variety of approaches various researchers have taken into the field of synchrony.  Through a multitudinous series of examples he showed all the various ways synchrony comes into play in day to day life.  In showing all of them you see his ultimate goal is to synthesize these various phenomena, to extract what is essential in the process of synchronization and to understand in what way synchrony is to some degree inevitable.  I will highlight a selection of these examples to give a flavor of the variety.
The first example was of fireflies synchronizing their flashes.  Fireflies have in a way become the mascot of synchronization, since their manifestation of the phenomenon is so startling, and immediately appreciable.  Many have tried and failed to find the exact biological
mechanism, but it has so far eluded capture.  Another oft-cited example is the cluster of heart cells that maintain the regular pumping of the heart.  There is no central timekeeper, yet all of these cells maintain a constant regularity with respect to the firing of their neighbors.  
While biological synchrony is by far the most familiar of the examples, almost more fascinating is the occurrence of synchrony in inanimate, non-biological cases.  One of the most striking was the eventual synchronization of the swinging of the pendulums of two grandfather clocks placed in the same room.  No matter what they did, after a certain period of time the pendulums would be in perfect synchrony, with the heads meeting at one point in time and each at the other extreme half a period later.  It was a great mystery for a long time, but it turns out in the end that they were "communicating" through the floorboards, and that when the two clocks were out of phase the vibrations along the floorboards would cause an imperceptible influence nudging them towards synchrony.
Another striking case of non-biological synchrony occurs at the lowest scales imaginable.  It has long been known that all matter has wave-like properties, and that there is no hard and fast distinction between particles and waves.  It turns out superconductivity is a quantum effect where all of the particles taking part in it effectively fuse into a single "wave".  That is, the phases and wavelengths of the "individual" particles all become wholly synchronized, to the point where they are indistinguishable from one another, and that all that remains is one super-coherent field of uber-particle.  
These cases in particular point towards a perspective of synchrony where it is a natural consequence of the interactions of the components that comprise it.  In effect, it is "easier" (thermodynamically speaking) in certain cases for the elements to synchronize, so that entropy itself will be driving units to synchronization.  Predictably, this has led to a mathematical study of synchrony in the abstract, in an attempt to glean what about synchrony is a *necessary* consequence of the interactions between various kinds of actors.  This was the other facet of the book, where he described his own and others' attempts at formalizing synchrony, independently of any particular case in nature.  What is interesting is how difficult this endeavor has been, how many failed attempts there are, and of the successful ones, what kinds of limitations the researchers had to impose on the model to get synchronization to emerge spontaneously.  
One of these attempts was made by Charles Peskin, in an attempt to model the synchronization of heart cells mentioned earlier.  He approached it purely mathematically, as a system of coupled oscillators.  He found a model for two and three coupled oscillators, but the math apparently became quickly unwieldy for any number beyond that.  His approach was based on a threshhold function, where after firing cells would quickly approach a level just under threshhold.  A single cell firing would raise the level of all the other oscillators by a modest amount, and since most cells would linger just under threshhold, this tiny impulse would possibly send a large number over threshhold simultaneously.  His work was criticized on several grounds, but most relevant to my work and the work in this class is that it was necessary to couple every oscillator to every other one.  If synchrony is to work as a general emergent mechanism, it must arise from local interactions, and not have information fed in from the activity of every other oscillator in the system.  By linking every oscillator to every other, synchronization becomes almost trivial.  If we are to find a true mechanism for synchronization, it must depend only on local information and local interactions, and not have some coordinating global effect guiding it invisibly behind the scenes.  
The next attempt that was discussed was by Yoshiki Kuramoto.  A big issue with the previous model and models like it are the pressing and immediate appearance of nonlinearity.  Due to this, Peskin's model was unable to actually be solved for any number of oscillators beyond three.  Kuramoto's attempt was a stroke of brilliance, for even though it is a clearly nonlinear system with an unknown number of oscillators, he found a way to solve the equations exactly.  Of course, to attain such a feat he made a number of serious simplifications, including that all oscillators must be identical or almost identical.  Also, there is no differentiation between various sections of the phase as in Peskin's model, who had the influence of various oscillators on the other oscillators change depending on what part of the phase the oscillator found itself in.  In Kuramoto's model, all phases are relative, and depend only on the sine between it and another oscillator.  In a way this is still a relative influence, in that the sine grows as the oscillators diverge in phase, but it is a much simpler mapping that enables the model to be solved directly.  
Kuramoto's model, though it is brilliant, suffers from what is also its greatest strength:  its extreme simplification.  Oscillators must start out very close to one another in frequency.  If they are too divergent, synchrony is never attained.  Many tradeoffs were made in order to allow the model to be solved exactly, while many of the most interesting kind of phenomena are still highly nonlinear in nature.  This is where computer models of large populations come in.  Computer models trade perfect accuracy and solvability for the ability to actually simulate the effect in question.  The computer models do not need to be "solved", you provide the rules governing a single agent and then turn hundreds of them loose and see what happens.  The computer keeps track of the voluminous computations necessary to keep the illusion of fully simultaneous interactions intact.  In this way nonlinearity is not a problem for computer models, they just calculate each time step from the one before, and the global behavior emerges from these interactions.  If it turns out to be nonlinear behavior, so be it.  In this way, a computer modeller is freed from the limitations of insoluability, at the expense of perfectly capturing the phenomenon in question.  A computer model will always be an approximation, but in areas where perfect solutions are impossible, an approximation is better than nothing.  This is reminiscent to me of many recent developments in a variety of different fields.  Quantum mechanics is famous for having unknowability at the very heart of its structure.  Uncertainty is the rule, and actually part of the essence of the phenomenon, rather than just being a limitation of our instruments, or whatnot.  Godel did a similar thing for mathematics when he thwarted Russell and Whitehead's attempt to lock down once and for all all mathematical paradox and contradiction.  Precision and exactness has held close to its victories, and was able to maintain its sense of universality by ignoring the blatant and ubiquitous examples where it totally breaks down:  anything biological at all, sociology, economics etc etc.  Basically anything that is not the most simple example of a functioning mechanism is outside the realm of pure mathematical solutions.  This is why it is my feeling that we will have to become more and more accustomed to approximations, as it is the only way to explore some of the most interesting things happening around us every day.  
The various examples of spontaneous synchrony in nature are inspiring though, in that it seems there is some general tendency for things to synchronize, in the absence of any other forces.  In particular, I feel that a search into synchrony is a journey away from the "particle" based thought pattern of discrete units and cleanly divided functioning elements into a more continuous, "wave"-like understanding of the interaction between things.  Synchrony involves at its heart a collection of oscillating elements, which are the genesis of wave-like phenomena.  Period, frequency, constructive and destructive interference, are all in the domain of wave dynamics, and I feel it is here that the true heart of synchronization can be searched for.  
I am reminded of the physics behind the plucked string, which apply to really any resonant body.  This familiar everyday example was not included in the book, but could have been, and represents a different approach from the frequency-adjusting oscillators the book spends so much time examining.  At the time of the pluck, or impulse, it is effectively as if signals of every frequency are present simultaneously.  Each signal races down the string, striking the point at which the string ends and bouncing back along the length of the string in the opposite direction.  All of these signals propagating all at once, all at unique frequencies, seems like the essence of chaos.  But an interesting thing starts to happen almost immediately.  In order to understand this, it is essential to know some basics of wave phenomena.  
It is one of the distinctive properties of waves that they can pass through one another without losing energy.  We are all familiar with this from watching waves in the ocean.  Waves are going in every direction, and two waves will collide and pass through one another as if nothing had happened.   In a way each impulse possesses an energetic "identity".  But while the two waves are passing through one another, the energetic states are *additive*, in that if both waves are high in their period, or both low, the resulting superposition of these waves will be twice as extreme.  This is known as "constructive interference".  The converse of that is when one wave is on its upswing while the other is down.  In this case the two extremes will cancel, and no disturbance will be observed in that moment.  This is called "destructive interference".  It is one of those childhood mysteries of waves how the two waves "remember" that they have energy when at a certain moment they have entirely cancelled eachother out.  In actuality of course the waves are not a thing unto themselves, but composed of the interaction of trillions of water molecules (in the case of an ocean), each of which has its own mass and momentum.  
So back to the plucked string, impulses of every frequency are travelling in every direction simultaneously.  But when these impulses are reflected back across the string upon colliding with one end, all of these impulses become superimposed over one another and themselves, bouncing madly back and forth between the two ends.  Beyond the interactions of all of these waves with eachother, imagine first the interaction of one impulse with itself as it gets reflected along the length of the string.  If the length of the wavelength of this impulse is exactly the length of the string, or some perfect division of it, the impulse will travel back and forth across the string in perfect synchrony with itself, reinforcing its crests and troughs as time goes on, to the point that these impulses linger long past when friction and other dissipative forces should have discorporated the effect.  This is known as "resonance".  The other impulses, of the vast majority, bounce back in an entirely unrelated point of their phase, evening out in progressive destructive interference until the point at which it is almost as if such an impulse never existed at all.  In the natural selection of the musical string environment, only wavelengths of perfect ratios with the length of the string will survive, while all others will interfere with themselves to the point that they dissipate entirely.  This effect does not take long, and to our ears the pluck of the string, the pangea of wavelengths where every frequency is present simultaneously lasts very briefly, and is experienced as only a short percussive attack as the note is struck, which then rings indefinitely, decaying slowly over time.  This natural occurrence of synchronization uses a different mechanism entirely than that of most of the models presented in the book, that of interference between various wavelengths to arrive at a state of synchrony directly.  The other impulses are still "there" in a way, it is just that there is no way to discern them as they are interfering with one another to such a degree that they may as well not even exist at all.  
I can imagine some further study into the interactions between various wave phenomena and synchrony could lead to a new understanding of synchronization.  As we are no longer bound by a need for mathematical perfection there is a whole range of computer simulation approaches to synchronization lying in wait.  
All in all, the book was an informative survey into the various cases and models of synchronization.  In a way, it made me realize how difficult the endeavor of modelling synchronization is, in that there are people that have been working on the problem for fifty years and are still not satisfied with understanding it totally.  I was under the impression I would be able to spin out a simple model in a matter of weeks, but this is seeming less likely the more I come to understand the issue.  I could replicate the work of Peskin or Kuramoto to get a simple model of synchronization working, but I am more interested in going beyond the limitations imposed by their models and using a wide variety of initial frequencies.  I am imagining ways to apply resonance concepts to the problem, and in the end I will probably end up with a variety of (failed) approaches.  Now that I have this perspective, I am glad in a way I did not grasp beforehand what I was getting myself into, as I may have been motivated to try something else.  But now that I am in the thick of it, I relish the challenge.  I will be applying what I learned from this book in my own attempts, and they will hopefully be the richer for it.  